# Case Study I: Rankings study of the top 190 GDPs
Damon Resnick  
Novemeber 3, 2016  

### Introduction
Gross Domestic product and Education data was downloaded from the [World Bank website](http://www.worldbank.org/). The data was cleaned, tidied, and merged together to form a data set that could be analyzed to answer these five questions:  

1)  Merge the data based on the country shortcode. How many of the IDs match?     
2)  Sort the data frame in ascending order by GDP (so United States is last). What is the 13th country in the resulting data frame?  
3)  What are the average GDP rankings for the "High income: OECD" and "High income:nonOECD" groups?  
4)  Plot the GDP for all of the countries. Use ggplot2 to color your plot by Income Group.  
5)  Cut the GDP ranking into 5 separate quantile groups. Make a table versus Income Group. How many countries are Lower middle income but among the 38 nations with highest GDP?   

### The organization of this repo is as followed:  
analysis - holds the script code files for anaylsis  
data - holds the raw data, tidy data, and download script code  
DResnick_CaseStudy_I_Final.RMD - is the R markdown file that uses the R scripts to run the code and present the answers  
DResnick_CaseStudy_I_Final.html - is the knitted html document generated by the RMD file  
DResnick_CaseStudy_I_Final.md - is the markdown file easily viewed online using the GitHub interface for the final report  

#### The RMD file is designed to be run independenty of all the other files. All you must due is download it into RStudio and set the working directory.  The other files and scripts are not needed generate the report.  They are only provided to help with reproducibility.
